{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red239\green219\blue197;
\red205\green149\blue117;
\red253\green217\blue181;
\red120\green219\blue226;
\red135\green169\blue107;
\red255\green164\blue116;
\red250\green231\blue181;
\red159\green129\blue112;
\red253\green124\blue110;
\red35\green35\blue35;
\red31\green117\blue254;
\red173\green173\blue214;
\red25\green158\blue189;
\red115\green102\blue189;
\red222\green93\blue131;
\red203\green65\blue84;
\red180\green103\blue77;
\red255\green127\blue73;
\red234\green126\blue93;
\red176\green183\blue198;
\red255\green255\blue153;
\red28\green211\blue162;
\red255\green170\blue204;
\red221\green68\blue146;
\red29\green172\blue214;
\red188\green93\blue88;
\red221\green148\blue117;
\red154\green206\blue235;
\red255\green188\blue217;
\red253\green219\blue109;
\red43\green108\blue196;
\red239\green205\blue184;
\red110\green81\blue96;
\red29\green249\blue20;
\red113\green188\blue120;
\red109\green174\blue129;
\red195\green100\blue197;
\red204\green102\blue102;
\red231\green198\blue151;
\red252\green217\blue117;
\red168\green228\blue160;
\red149\green145\blue140;
\red28\green172\blue120;
\red240\green232\blue145;
\red255\green29\blue206;
\red178\green236\blue93;
\red93\green118\blue203;
\red202\green55\blue103;
\red59\green176\blue143;
\red253\green252\blue116;
\red252\green180\blue213;
\red255\green189\blue136;
\red246\green100\blue175;
\red205\green74\blue74;
\red151\green154\blue170;
\red255\green130\blue67;
\red200\green56\blue90;
\red239\green152\blue170;
\red253\green188\blue180;
\red26\green72\blue118;
\red48\green186\blue143;
\red25\green116\blue210;
\red255\green163\blue67;
\red186\green184\blue108;
\red255\green117\blue56;
\red230\green168\blue215;
\red65\green74\blue76;
\red255\green110\blue74;
\red28\green169\blue201;
\red255\green207\blue171;
\red197\green208\blue230;
\red253\green215\blue228;
\red21\green128\blue120;
\red252\green116\blue253;
\red247\green128\blue161;
\red142\green69\blue133;
\red116\green66\blue200;
\red157\green129\blue186;
\red255\green29\blue206;
\red255\green73\blue108;
\red214\green138\blue89;
\red255\green72\blue208;
\red227\green37\blue107;
\red238\green32\blue77;
\red255\green83\blue73;
\red192\green68\blue143;
\red31\green206\blue203;
\red120\green81\blue169;
\red255\green155\blue170;
\red252\green40\blue71;
\red118\green255\blue122;
\red159\green226\blue191;
\red165\green105\blue79;
\red138\green121\blue93;
\red69\green206\blue162;
\red251\green126\blue253;
\red205\green197\blue194;
\red128\green218\blue235;
\red236\green234\blue190;
\red255\green207\blue72;
\red253\green94\blue83;
\red250\green167\blue108;
\red252\green137\blue172;
\red219\green215\blue210;
\red23\green128\blue109;
\red222\green170\blue136;
\red119\green221\blue231;
\red253\green252\blue116;
\red146\green110\blue174;
\red247\green83\blue148;
\red255\green160\blue137;
\red143\green80\blue157;
\red237\green237\blue237;
\red162\green173\blue208;
\red255\green67\blue164;
\red252\green108\blue133;
\red205\green164\blue222;
\red252\green232\blue131;
\red197\green227\blue132;
\red255\green182\blue83;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs22 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was vitd_rcc_surv.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.5 r1236 (released Jan 17 2014) on Fri Oct 31 17:19:09 2014
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs22\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw11960\paperh16900\margl1138\margr1138\margt1138\margb1138\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \fs20 {\b Title:} Circulating 25-Hydroxyvitamin D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and survival after diagnosis with kidney cancer. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi0 \fs20 {\b Authors:} David C Muller (1), Ghislaine Scelo (1), David Zaridze (2), Vladimir Janout (3), Ivana Holcatova (4), Lenka Foretova/Marie Navratilova (5), Dana Mates (6), {\'d8}ivind Midttun (7), Per Magne Ueland (8,9), Paul Brennan (1), Mattias Johansson (1).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi500 \fs20 {\fs18   1. International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), Lyon, France \line  2. Russian N.N. Blokhin Cancer Research Centre, Moscow, Russian Federation \line  3. Department of Preventive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Palacky University, Olomouc, Czech Republic \line  4. Charles University in Prague, First Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, Prague, Czech Republic \line  5. Department of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute, Brno, Czech Republic \line  6. National Institute of Public Health, Bucharest, Romania 7. Bevital AS, Bergen, Norway \line  8. Department of Clinical Science, University of Bergen, Norway \line  9. Laboratory of Clinical Biochemistry, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi0 \fs20 {\b Corresponding authors:} \par
{\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi500 \fs20 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li1024\ri1024\fi500 \fs20  {\b Background:} We evaluated whether concentrations of vitamin D at diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is associated with prognosis. \line  {\b Methods:} We conducted a case-cohort study of 630 RCC cases from a multi-centre case-control study in eastern Europe. Vitamin D was assessed as 25-Hydroxyvitamin D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} [25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
}], and we used weighted Cox models to estimate hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) by categories of season-adjusted 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
}.\line  {\b Results:} Higher concentrations of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} were associated with lower risk of death after adjusting for stage, age, sex, and country (HR highest versus lowest category 0.57, 95% CI [0.34, 0.97]). The inverse associations of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} with death were most notable among those who died from non-RCC causes and those diagnosed with early stage disease. \line  {\b Conclusions:} 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} concentration at diagnosis of RCC was inversely associated with all-cause mortality rates, but not specifically with RCC outcome. \line \par
}\page
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb560 \fi0 Introduction\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 Each year more than 300,000 new cases of kidney cancer are diagnosed worldwide, leading to approximately 130,000 deaths ({Ferlay {\i et\~al.}}, 2013). The prognosis is strongly dependent on stage at diagnosis, with around 90% of stage I patients alive five years after diagnosis, compared with only 10% of stage IV patients ({Cancer Research UK}, 2014).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi500 Little is known about factors influencing survival after diagnosis of kidney cancer, apart from tumor stage and grade. We recently investigated circulating vitamin D and kidney cancer onset and survival in a prospective epidemiological cohort where blood samples were collected at entry to the cohort, an average of 7 years before diagnosis ({Muller {\i et\~al.}}, 2014). We reported an inverse association between vitamin D concentrations and risk of subsequent kidney cancer, an observation consistent with another recent study in which investigators had estimated vitamin D levels ({Joh {\i et\~al.}}, 2013). Further, we observed an increased rate of death after kidney cancer diagnosis for both low and high concentrations of vitamin D. Available data did not allow thorough analysis of cause-specific mortality, nor were we able to adjust for stage. This observation prompted us to investigate whether vitamin D concentrations in blood at kidney cancer diagnosis are associated with subsequent survival, and if such an association is independent of stage or other prognostic factors. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb440 \fi0 Methods\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb380 \fi0 The K2 study\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 Participants included patients who were above 18 years of age and diagnosed with kidney cancer in one of 4 participating centres in Czech Republic, 1 center in Romania, and 1 center in Russia. We gave participants a standardized face-to-face short lifestyle questionnaire covering socio-demographic characteristics, anthropometric measures, medical history, family history, and tobacco and alcohol use. Clinical and pathological data were abstracted from medical charts and pathological reports. A majority of participants underwent nephrectomy and the tumor was histologically confirmed. Follow-up for outcome (relapse, vital status, and cause of death where relevant) was performed every 6 to 12 months after diagnosis, using passive follow-up methods where possible (with confirmation of vital status through active follow-up methods in case of uncertainties), and active follow-up methods when no linkage to databases was possible. The study protocol was approved by the institutional review boards of the International Agency for Research on Cancer and all collaborating institutions, and we obtained written informed consent from all participants. \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb320 \fi0 Case-cohort sampling\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 Among 2330 participants with questionnaire data available and a diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma (RCC), we excluded 125 participants with no plasma sample available, 1005 participants with no follow-up data at the time of this project, 5 participants with inconsistencies in reference dates, and 7 participants with no information on stage. From the 1188 remaining, we randomly selected 500 participants at baseline (the subcohort). We also included all participants who died during follow-up that were not randomly selected in to the subcohort ({{\i N}=93}), as well as 37 stage IV patients that had survived and were not randomly selected. Hence a total of 630 participants diagnosed with kidney cancer were included in the study.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb320 \fi0 Biosample processing and biochemical analysis\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 Venous blood was obtained before or at the time of the nephrectomy, prior to any treatment. Blood was collected in vacutainers containing ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), and processed as rapidly as possible (usually within two hours). Plasma samples were stored at {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \u8722?80\\s\\up5({\fs18 {\u8728*}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C, except in Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic, where samples were stored at {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \u8722?20\\s\\up5({\fs18 {\u8728*}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C. All samples were transported at {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \u8722?80\\s\\up5({\fs18 {\u8728*}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C to IARC for long-term storage at {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \u8722?150\\s\\up5({\fs18 {\u8728*}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C. Samples underwent a single thawing cycle for aliquoting of 400uL for shipment to the Bevital laboratory in Bergen, Norway, for analysis. Liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry was used to separately analyse vitamin D as 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} ({Midttun and Ueland}, 2011). 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
} was undetectable in the majority of samples, so our analyses focus on 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
}. The lab is DEQAS (www.deqas.org) certified.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb320 \fi0 Statistical analysis\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 To adjust for seasonal variation, we modeled the expected log{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
} 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} concentration as a periodic function of day of blood draw using a pair of sine and cosine functions. To create season-adjusted categories, we grouped the residuals from this model at quartiles of their distribution among the randomly selected subcohort. We used Cox proportional hazards models with time since diagnosis (recruitment) as the time scale to estimate hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for all-cause mortality by the season-adjusted categories of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
}. We also modeled 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} continuously using restricted cubic splines with knots at its 10th, 33rd, 67th, and 90th percentiles, explicitly adjusting for seasonality by including the pair of sine and cosine functions. HRs for cause-specific mortality were calculated in a competing risks model using the data augmentation method ({Lunn and {McNeil}}, 1995). To account for the case-cohort design ({Prentice}, 1986), we used Barlow\rquote s method to weight the likelihood and computed robust variance estimates ({Barlow}, 1994; {Barlow {\i et\~al.}}, 1999). We investigated potential effect modification by fitting interactions between season-adjusted log{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
} 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and various factors. All models included stage, age at recruitment, and sex as covariates, with the baseline hazard stratified by country of recruitment. We additionally adjusted for body mass index (BMI, kg/m{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs18 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
}), smoking status (never, former, current), and alcohol drinking status (never, former, current). All {{\i p}}-values are two sided, and were calculated using the Wald test. Statistical analyses were performed using Stata 12.1 for Linux (Stata Corporation, College Station, Texas, US) and R version 3.1.1 ({R Core Team}, 2014).\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb440 \fi0 Results\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 Demographic and clinical characteristics of the study sample by vital status at the end of follow-up are presented in Table\~1. The sample included a higher proportion of men (63%) than women, and was predominantly recruited from the Czech Republic (52%) and Russia (43%), with only 5% or participants recruited in Romania. Those participants who survived to the end of follow-up had a similar age distribution to those who died during follow-up. 518 of the 630 cases (82%) were conventional RCC. 50% of deaths occurred among participants with a stage IV tumor, and 15% of those surviving to the end of follow-up had stage IV diagnoses. In contrast, 72 % of those surviving to the end of follow-up were diagnosed with stage I-II disease.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi500 Hazard of death from any cause was inversely associated with circulating concentrations of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} (Table\~2). After adjusting for stage, age, and sex, the hazard was 43% lower among those in the highest compared to the lowest group of seasonally-adjusted concentration (HR{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 4{{\i v}{\i s}}1})}}{\fldrslt }}
} 0.57, 95% CI [0.34, 0.97]). Although no statistical evidence for heterogeneity by cause of death was noted ({{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i P}\\s\\do5({\fs18 }){{\i h}{\i e}{\i t}{\i e}{\i r}{\i o}{\i g}{\i e}{\i n}{\i e}{\i i}{\i t}{\i y}}}}{\fldrslt }}
} 0.53), we estimated HR{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 4{{\i v}{\i s}}1})}}{\fldrslt }}
} of 0.77 (95% CI 0.39, 1.24) for RCC specific death, and 0.36 (95% CI 0.14, 0.91) for non-RCC causes of death, suggesting that this association was not specific to RCC death (Table\~2). The HR for continuously varying 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} (relative to a concentration of 50 nmol/L) is presented in Figure\~1. These estimates corroborate those in Table\~2, suggesting a monotonic inverse association between 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and hazard of death.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi500 Supplementary Figure\~1 presents HRs for a doubling in seasonally adjusted 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} concentration separately by categories of several potential effect modifiers. The estimated magnitude of the association was consistent by, sex, stage, histology, history of diabetes, smoking status, and alcohol intake status. There was some indication that the association might be stronger among those diagnosed at age 65 years or older, those with a history of hypertension, those with higher BMI, and those diagnosed with stage I or II RCC, but there was little statistical evidence of interaction with any of these factors. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb440 \fi0 Discussion\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 We investigated whether differences in circulating concentrations of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} at the time of diagnosis of RCC were associated with all-cause and RCC-specific survival. We observed that higher concentrations of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} were associated with a lower rate of death, but that this association was not restricted to RCC specific death. We also observed an indication this association might be somewhat stronger for those with a history of hypertension, advanced age at diagosis, or early stage disease.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi500 We recently studied circulating 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and RCC risk of RCC in a prospective case-control study nested within the EPIC cohort ({Muller {\i et\~al.}}, 2014). This analysis indicated an inverse association between 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and risk of RCC as well as a non-linear U-shaped association between pre-diagnostic 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and all-cause mortality after diagnosis of RCC. This observation prompted us to conduct the current analysis in newly diagnosed RCC cases with complete information on disease stage and cause of death. Results from the present study are not completely consistent with these initial findings from EPIC. In particular, we found no evidence of increased rate of death among patients with high 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} at diagnosis, but rather an inverse association between 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and all-cause mortality across the range of observed concentrations.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi500 Many studies have investigated circulating vitamin D and all-cause mortality in general populations. Consistent with our observation, many of these have reported high risk of death for people with low concentrations ({Sch\'f6ttker {\i et\~al.}}, 2013; {Virtanen {\i et\~al.}}, 2011; {Hutchinson {\i et\~al.}}, 2010; {Szulc {\i et\~al.}}, 2009; {Semba {\i et\~al.}}, 2009; {Pilz {\i et\~al.}}, 2009; {{Melamed {ML}} {\i et\~al.}}, 2008; {Jia {\i et\~al.}}, 2007), suggesting that the association observed in our study might reflect a general phenomenon rather than something specific to RCC prognosis. This would be consistent with our observation that any association might be stronger among those patients diagnosed with early rather than advanced stage tumours. The lack of heterogeneity by cause of death provides additional indirect evidence that the association between vitamin D and mortality is unlikely to exist exclusively among RCC patients. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi500 In summary, we found that high 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} at diagnosis of RCC was associated with lower risk of death. This association was not restricted to RCC cause-specific death, and appeared stronger for early stage disease, supporting the notion of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} being associated with lower overall death rates in general, rather than RCC prognosis specifically. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb440 \fi0 Acknowledgements\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 Funding: The World Cancer Research Fund (UK) supported the biochemical analyses. This work was also supported by a grant from the NCI (U01-CA155309), and the Ministry of Health Czech Republic \endash  DRO (MMCI, 00209805). The funding organization had no role in design and conduct of the study; collection, management, analysis, and interpretation of the data; preparation, review, or approval of the manuscript. The work undertaken by DCM that was reported in this paper was done so during the tenure of an IARC-Australia Postdoctoral Fellowship from the International Agency for Research on Cancer, supported by the Cancer Council Australia. \par
{\page
\pard\plain\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb320 \fi0 {\plain\b\fs32 References}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \li450\fi0 Barlow WE (1994) Robust variance estimation for the case-cohort design. {\i Biometrics} {\b 50}:1064\endash 1072\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Barlow WE, Ichikawa L, Rosner D, Izumi S (1999) Analysis of Case-Cohort Designs. {\i Journal of Clinical Epidemiology} {\b 52}:1165\endash 1172. {10.1016/S0895-4356(99)00102-X}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 {Cancer Research UK} (2014) Statistics and outlook for kidney cancer. Accessed: 28 May 2014\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Ferlay J, Steliarova-Foucher E, Lortet-Tieulent J, Rosso S, Coebergh JWW, Comber H, Forman D, Bray F (2013) Cancer incidence and mortality patterns in Europe: Estimates for 40 countries in 2012. {\i European Journal of Cancer} {\b 49}:1374\endash 1403. {10.1016/j.ejca.2012.12.027}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Hutchinson MS, Grimnes G, Joakimsen RM, Figenschau Y, Jorde R (2010) Low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels are associated with increased all-cause mortality risk in a general population: the Troms\'f8study. {\i European Journal of Endocrinology} {\b 162}:935\endash 942\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Jia X, Aucott LS, {McNeill} G (2007) Nutritional status and subsequent all-cause mortality in men and women aged 75 years or over living in the community. {\i British Journal of Nutrition} {\b 98}:593\endash 599\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Joh HK, Giovannucci EL, Bertrand KA, Lim S, Cho E (2013) Predicted Plasma 25-Hydroxyvitamin D and Risk of Renal Cell Cancer. {\i Journal of the National Cancer Institute} {\b 105}:726\endash 732\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Lunn M, {McNeil} D (1995) Applying Cox Regression to Competing Risks. {\i Biometrics} {\b 51}:524. {10.2307/2532940}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 {Melamed {ML}}, {Michos {ED}}, {Post W}, {Astor B} (2008) 25-hydroxyvitamin d levels and the risk of mortality in the general population. {\i Archives of Internal Medicine} {\b 168}:1629\endash 1637\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Midttun {\'d8}, Ueland PM (2011) Determination of vitamins A, D and E in a small volume of human plasma by a high-throughput method based on liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. {\i Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry} {\b 25}:1942\u226?\u8364?\u8220?1948\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Muller DC, Fanidi A, Midttun {\'d8}, Steffen A, Dossus L, Boutron-Ruault MC, Severi G, K\'fchn T, Katzke V, Torre RAdl, Gonz\'e1lez CA, S\'e1nchez MJ, Dorronsoro M, Santiuste C, Barricarte A, Khaw KT, Wareham N, Travis RC, Trichopoulou A, Giotaki M, Trichopoulos D, Palli D, Krogh V, Tumino R, Vineis P, Panico S, Tj{\'f8}nneland A, Olsen A, Bueno-de Mesquita HB, Peeters PH, Ljungberg B, Wennberg M, Weiderpass E, Murphy N, Riboli E, Ueland PM, Boeing H, Brennan P, Johansson M (2014) Circulating 25-Hydroxyvitamin D3 in Relation to Renal Cell Carcinoma Incidence and Survival in the {EPIC} Cohort. {\i American Journal of Epidemiology} kwu204. {10.1093/aje/kwu204}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Pilz S, Dobnig H, Nijpels G, Heine RJ, Stehouwer CDA, Snijder MB, Van\~Dam RM, Dekker JM (2009) Vitamin D and mortality in older men and women. {\i Clinical Endocrinology} {\b 71}:666\endash 672\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Prentice RL (1986) A case-cohort design for epidemiologic cohort studies and disease prevention trials. {\i Biometrika} {\b 73}:1\endash 11. {10.1093/biomet/73.1.1}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 {R Core Team} (2014) R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing. Vienna, Austria\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Sch\'f6ttker B, Haug U, Schomburg L, K\'f6hrle J, Perna L, M\'fcller H, Holleczek B, Brenner H (2013) Strong associations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations with all-cause, cardiovascular, cancer, and respiratory disease mortality in a large cohort study. {\i The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition} {\b 97}:782\endash 793\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Semba RD, Houston DK, Ferrucci L, Cappola AR, Sun K, Guralnik JM, Fried LP (2009) Low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations are associated with greater all-cause mortality in older community-dwelling women. {\i Nutrition Research} {\b 29}:525\endash 530\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Szulc P, Claustrat B, Delmas PD (2009) Serum concentrations of {17{\u946*}}-E{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol ({25OHD)} in relation to all-cause mortality in older men \endash  the {MINOS} study. {\i Clinical Endocrinology} {\b 71}:594\endash 602\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \li450\fi0 Virtanen JK, Nurmi T, Voutilainen S, Mursu J, Tuomainen TP (2011) Association of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D with the risk of death in a general older population in Finland. {\i European Journal of Nutrition} {\b 50}:305\endash 312\par
}\page
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb500 \fi0 Tables\par
{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb500 \fi0 \fs20  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \fs20 {Table 1: Table 1: Demographic and clinical characteristics of the participants by vital status at the end of follow-up.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 Table 1: Demographic and clinical characteristics of the participants by vital status at the end of follow-up." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
{\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \fs20 \par
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\clmgf\cellx3874\clmrg\cellx4607\clmrg\cellx5385\clmrg\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Vital status\cell}
{\pard\intbl\cell}
{\pard\intbl\cell}
{\pard\intbl}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\clmgf\cellx3874\clmrg\cellx4607\clmgf\cellx5385\clmrg\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {(lr){3-6}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {alive\cell}
{\pard\intbl}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {dead\cell}
{\pard\intbl}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {(lr){3-4}(lr){5-6}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {n}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {(%)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {n}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {(%)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Total}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Total}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{427}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{100}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{203}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{100}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{630}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Sex}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{266}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{62}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{131}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{65}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{397}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Female}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{161}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{38}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}72}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{35}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{233}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Age at recruitment (years)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {[26.7,55)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{118}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{28}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}37}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{18}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{155}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {[55,65)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{161}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{38}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}88}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{43}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{249}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {[65,86.8]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{148}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{35}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}78}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{38}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{226}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Country}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Czech Republic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{230}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{54}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}95}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{47}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{325}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Russia}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{167}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{39}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{105}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{52}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{272}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Romania}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}30}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}7}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}3}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}1}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}33}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {BMI (kg/m{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
})}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {[17.2,25)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}97}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{23}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}71}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{35}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{168}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {[25,30)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{184}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{43}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}82}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{40}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{266}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {[30,58.5]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{143}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{33}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}50}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{25}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{193}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {missing}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}3}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}1}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}3}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Smoking}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Never smoker}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{213}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{50}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}92}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{45}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{305}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Former smoker}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{108}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{25}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}54}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{27}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{162}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Current smoker}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{106}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{25}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}57}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{28}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{163}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Diabetes}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Yes}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}65}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{15}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}39}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{19}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{104}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {No}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{362}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{85}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{164}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{81}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{526}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Hypertension}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Yes}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{233}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{55}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{103}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{51}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{336}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {No}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{193}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{45}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{100}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{49}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{293}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {missing}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}1}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}1}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Stage}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{269}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{63}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}38}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{19}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{307}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {II}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}38}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}9}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}10}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}5}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}48}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {III}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}56}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{13}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}54}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{27}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{110}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {IV}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}63}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{15}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{101}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{50}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{164}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {missing}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}1}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}1}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Grade}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}73}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{17}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}7}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}3}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}80}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{173}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{41}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}53}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{26}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{226}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}67}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{16}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}50}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{25}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{117}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}15}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}4}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}18}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}9}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}33}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {missing}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}99}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{23}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}75}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{37}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{174}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Histology}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Conventional RCC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{357}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{84}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{161}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{79}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{518}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Papillary RCC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}41}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{10}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}10}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}5}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}51}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Chromophobe RCC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}11}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}3}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}5}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}2}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}16}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}14}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}3}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}4}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}2}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}18}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Unknown}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{00}4}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{0}1}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}23}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{11}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}27}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {Season-adjusted circulating 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} category}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1 (lowest)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}93}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{22}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}63}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{31}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{156}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{107}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{25}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}56}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{28}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{163}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{106}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{25}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}46}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{23}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{152}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2272\cellx3096\cellx3874\cellx4607\cellx5385\cellx6118\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4 (highest)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{121}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{28}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{{0}38}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{19}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{159}}\cell}
\row}
}\par
}{\page
\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb680 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Table 2: Table 2: Hazard ratios (HR) [95% confidence intervals (CI)] for risk of all cause and cause specific mortality by season-adjusted categories of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} concentration.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 Table 2: Hazard ratios (HR) [95% confidence intervals (CI)] for risk of all cause and cause specific mortality by season-adjusted categories of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} concentration." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
{\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\clmgf\cellx4122\clmrg\cellx4842\clmrg\cellx5355\clmgf\cellx5661\clmrg\cellx6381\clmrg\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {minimally adjusted{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs18 \'86})}}{\fldrslt }}
}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\cell}
{\pard\intbl}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {adjusted{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs18 \'87})}}{\fldrslt }}
}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\cell}
{\pard\intbl}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {(r){4-6} (l){7-9}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} category}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs18 {{\i d}{\i e}{\i a}{\i t}{\i h}{\i s}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {HR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[95% CI]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{\i p}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {HR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[95% CI]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {{{\i p}}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql { all cause}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {63}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {.015{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs18 *})}}{\fldrslt }}
}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {.03{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs18 *})}}{\fldrslt }}
}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {56}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.14}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.69, 1.90]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.12}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.67, 1.87]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {46}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.81}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.48, 1.37]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.86}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.51, 1.44]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {38}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.57}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.34, 0.97]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.35, 1.00]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {RCC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {42}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {.56{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs18 \'a7})}}{\fldrslt }}
}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {.53{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs18 \'a7})}}{\fldrslt }}
}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {43}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.32}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.76, 2.31]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.30}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.74, 2.27]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {36}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.96}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.54, 1.70]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.57, 1.79]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {31}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.68}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.38, 1.20]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.70}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.39, 1.24]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {non-RCC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {21}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {1.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {13}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.79}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.36, 1.75]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.76}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.34, 1.70]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {10}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.52}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.21, 1.28]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.55}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.23, 1.35]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1910\cellx2734\cellx3816\cellx4122\cellx4842\cellx5355\cellx5661\cellx6381\cellx6894
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.36}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.14, 0.92]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {0.36}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {[0.14, 0.91]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
\row}
} \line  {\fs18  {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up4({\fs15 \'86})}}{\fldrslt }}
}Stratified by country, and adjusted for stage, age at recruitment, and sex \line  {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up4({\fs15 \'87})}}{\fldrslt }}
}Additionally adjusted for BMI (kg/m{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up4({\fs15 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
}), smoking status, cigarettes per day, alcohol drinking status, and alcohol intake per day (mL) \line  {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up4({\fs15 *}){\i p}}}{\fldrslt }}
}-values for the all-cause models are from tests against the null hypothesis that the 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do4({\fs15 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} coefficients are identically 0. \line  {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up4({\fs15 \'a7}){\i p}}}{\fldrslt }}
}-values for the competing risks model are from tests against the null hypothesis of no heterogeneity of the coefficients by cause of death (RCC versus non-RCC). } \par
}\page
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb680 \fi0 Figure legends\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb260 \fi0 {\b Figure 1}: Hazard ratio for all cause mortality among RCC cases as a function of circulating concentration of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} at diagnosis, relative to a concentration of 50\~nmol/L. 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} was modeled using restricted cubic splines with knots at the 10th, 33rd, 67th, and 90th percentiles of its distribution. Estimates were derived from a Cox model stratified by country of recruitment, and adjusted for stage, age at recruitment, sex, and seasonality (sine and cosine functions of day of blood draw). Solid and dashed lines represent the maximum pseudolikelihood estimates and 95% confidence intervals respectively. The translucent lines are 1000 draws from the multivariate normal distribution defined by the maximum pseudolikelihood estimates and their variance covariance matrix, and thus give an indication of the posterior density for the hazard ratio under a uniform prior on the regression coefficients. The \ldblquote rug plot\rdblquote  shows the observed distribution of 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
}.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb200 \fi0 {\b Supplementary Figure 1}: Hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for a doubling in season-adjusted 25(OH)D{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs18 3})}}{\fldrslt }}
} concentration by potential effect modifiers. \fs18 {Estimates derived from Cox models stratified by country of recruitment, and adjusted for stage, age at recruitment, and sex. {{\i p}}-values are from Wald tests of the interaction terms.} \par
}}
